=head1 NAME

swtpm-localca.conf - Configuration file for swtpm_localca

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The file I</etc/swtpm-localca.conf> contains configuration variables
for the I<swtpm_localca> program.

Entries may contain environment variables that will be resolved. All
environment variables must be formatted like this: '${varname}'.

Users may write their own configuration into
I<${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/swtpm-localca.conf> or if XDG_CONFIG_HOME
is not set it may be in I<${HOME}/.config/swtpm-localca.conf>.

The following configuration variables are supported:

=over 4

=item B<statedir>

The name of a directory where to store data into. A lock will be created
in this directory.

=item B<signinkey>

The file containing the key used for signing the certificates. Provide
a key in PEM format or a pkcs11 URI.

=item B<signingkey_password>

The password to use for the signing key.

=item B<issuercert>

The file containing the certificate for this CA. Provide a certificate
in PEM format.

=item B<certserial>

The name of file containing the serial number for the next certificate.

=item B<TSS_TCSD_HOSTNAME>

This variable can be set to the host where B<tcsd> is running on in case
the signing key is a GnuTLS TPM 1.2 key. By default I<localhost> will be
used.

=item B<TSS_TCSD_PORT>

This variable can be set to the port on which  B<tcsd> is listening for
connections. By default port I<30003> will be used.

=item B<env:<environment variable name>=<value>>

Environment variables, that are needed by pkcs11 modules, can be set using
this format. An example for such an environment variable may look like this:

    env:MY_MODULE_PKCS11_CONFIG = /tmp/mymodule-pkcs11.conf

The line must not contain any trailing spaces.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

An example I<swtpm-localca.conf> file may look as follows:

 statedir = /var/lib/swtpm_localca
 signingkey = /var/lib/swtpm_localca/signkey.pem
 issuercert = /var/lib/swtpm_localca/issuercert.pem
 certserial = /var/lib/swtpm_localca/certserial

With a PKCS11 URI it may look like this:

 statedir = /var/lib/swtpm-localca
 signingkey = pkcs11:model=SoftHSM%20v2;manufacturer=SoftHSM%20project;serial=891b99c169e41301;token=mylabel;id=%00;object=mykey;type=public
 issuercert = /var/lib/swtpm-localca/swtpm-localca-tpmca-cert.pem
 certserial = /var/lib/swtpm-localca/certserial
 SWTPM_PKCS11_PIN = 1234

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<swtpm_localca>

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs to Stefan Berger <stefanb@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
